README.md, before:

MISP Docker
===========

The files in this repository are used to create a Docker container running a [MISP](http://www.misp-project.org) ("Malware Information Sharing Platform") instance.

All the required components (MySQL, Apache, Redis, ...) are running in a single Docker. At first run, most of the setup is automated but some small steps must be performed manually after the initial run.

The build is based on Ubuntu and will install all the required components. The following configuration steps are performed automatically:
* Reconfiguration of the base URL in `config.php`
* Generation of a self-signed certificate and reconfiguration of the vhost to offer SSL support
* Optimization of the PHP environment (php.ini) to match the MISP recommended values
* Creation of the MySQL database
* Generation of the admin PGP key

# Building the image

```
# git clone https://github.com/MattCarothers/misp-docker
# cd misp-docker

Edit env.txt to set configuration options for the image.

# MySQL passwords
MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=my_strong_root_pw
MYSQL_MISP_PASSWORD=my_strong_misp_pw

# Address from which MISP should send email
MISP_EMAIL=admin@admin.test

# Address to be used as a contact address for user support requests
MISP_CONTACT=admin@admin.test

# Email and passphrase for the PGP keys MISP will use to sign outgoing emails.
# Note that this is the email address to which the key is tied and not the
# one used as a From address or the one used as the default admin login.
MISP_ADMIN_EMAIL=admin@admin.test
MISP_GPG_PASSPHRASE=abc123

# If you don't provide a base URL, MISP will set it to
# the URL you use when you log in for the first time.
#MISP_BASEURL=https://misp.local

# If you don't provide a salt, MISP will generate one automatically.
# Setting this explicitly is important if you're going to attach a
# database from a previous MISP container, and you didn't preserve
# /var/www/MISP/app/Config/config.php.  If this is a fresh install,
# you don't need to set it.
#MISP_SALT=your_salt_here

# Mailname and relay for postfix.  If you don't set one, the mailname will
# be a docker-generated random hostname, which may or may not impact your
# MISP's ability to deliver email past spam filters.
#POSTFIX_MAILNAME=misp.local
#POSTFIX_RELAY=smtp.local

# docker build -t misp/misp .

If you wish to use MariaDB instead of MySQL (necessary if you're attaching
a MariaDB database directory from a previous container), you can build your
image with it like this:

# docker build --build-arg DB=mariadb -t misp/misp .
```

Then boot the container:
```
# docker run -d -p 443:443 -v /dev/urandom:/dev/random --restart=unless-stopped --name misp misp/misp
```

Note: the volume mapping is /dev/urandom is required to generate enough entropy to create the PGP key.

For a production deployment, you probably want the database, gpg keyrings, and MISP config to live on the host filesystem so they won't disappear if the container is removed.
```
# docker run -d -p 443:443 -v /dev/urandom:/dev/random \
	-v /opt/misp/mysql:/var/lib/mysql \
	-v /opt/misp/gnupg:/var/www/MISP/.gnupg \
	-v /opt/misp/config:/var/www/MISP/app/Config \
	--restart=unless-stopped --name misp misp/misp
```

The MySQL database directory, gnupg home, and MISP config directory are all declared as volumes in the Dockerfile, so even if you don't mount them externally, you can still remove the container without losing the data.  It will just be more complicated to mount it in a new container.  See http://container-solutions.com/understanding-volumes-docker/ for more information on how docker volumes work.

If you have a real TLS certificate and want to use that instead of the self-signed cert, name your certificate "misp.crt" and your key "misp.key," and put them in a volume mapped to /etc/apache2/ssl:
```
# docker run -d -p 443:443 -v /dev/urandom:/dev/random \
	-v /opt/misp/certs:/etc/apache2/ssl --restart=unless-stopped \
	--name misp misp/misp
```

# Post-boot steps

Once the container starts, you can execute a shell in it like so:
```
# docker exec -it misp bash
```

# Usage

Point your browser to `https://<your-docker-server>`. The default credentials remain the same:  `admin@admin.test` with `admin` as password.
To use MISP, refer to the official documentation: http://www.misp-project.org/documentation/

Commit message:

Allow the user to input MySQL passwords If no MySQL passwords are provided in env.txt, prompt the user to input them the first time the container runs.

README.md, after:

MISP Docker
===========

The files in this repository are used to create a Docker container running a [MISP](http://www.misp-project.org) ("Malware Information Sharing Platform") instance.

All the required components (MySQL, Apache, Redis, ...) are running in a single Docker. At first run, most of the setup is automated but some small steps must be performed manually after the initial run.

The build is based on Ubuntu and will install all the required components. The following configuration steps are performed automatically:
* Reconfiguration of the base URL in `config.php`
* Generation of a self-signed certificate and reconfiguration of the vhost to offer SSL support
* Optimization of the PHP environment (php.ini) to match the MISP recommended values
* Creation of the MySQL database
* Generation of the admin PGP key

# Building the image

```
# git clone https://github.com/MattCarothers/misp-docker
# cd misp-docker

Edit env.txt to set configuration options for the image.

# MySQL passwords
MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=my_strong_root_pw
MYSQL_MISP_PASSWORD=my_strong_misp_pw

# Address from which MISP should send email
MISP_EMAIL=admin@admin.test

# Address to be used as a contact address for user support requests
MISP_CONTACT=admin@admin.test

# Email and passphrase for the PGP keys MISP will use to sign outgoing emails.
# Note that this is the email address to which the key is tied and not the
# one used as a From address or the one used as the default admin login.
MISP_ADMIN_EMAIL=admin@admin.test
MISP_GPG_PASSPHRASE=abc123

# If you don't provide a base URL, MISP will set it to
# the URL you use when you log in for the first time.
#MISP_BASEURL=https://misp.local

# If you don't provide a salt, MISP will generate one automatically.
# Setting this explicitly is important if you're going to attach a
# database from a previous MISP container, and you didn't preserve
# /var/www/MISP/app/Config/config.php.  If this is a fresh install,
# you don't need to set it.
#MISP_SALT=your_salt_here

# Mailname and relay for postfix.  If you don't set one, the mailname will
# be a docker-generated random hostname, which may or may not impact your
# MISP's ability to deliver email past spam filters.
#POSTFIX_MAILNAME=misp.local
#POSTFIX_RELAY=smtp.local

# docker build -t misp/misp .

If you wish to use MariaDB instead of MySQL (necessary if you're attaching
a MariaDB database directory from a previous container), you can build your
image with it like this:

# docker build --build-arg DB=mariadb -t misp/misp .
```

Then boot the container:
```
# docker run -d -p 443:443 -v /dev/urandom:/dev/random --restart=unless-stopped --name misp misp/misp
```
Note: the volume mapping is /dev/urandom is required to generate enough entropy to create the PGP key.

If you did not supply MySQL passwords in env.txt, the container will prompt you for them on first boot.  You'll need to run it in interactive mode.
```
# docker run -it -p 443:443 -v /dev/urandom:/dev/random --restart=unless-stopped --name misp misp/misp
```

After the container finishes booting, shut it down by pressing ^C or issuing "docker stop" from another window.  Start it back up in the background:
```
# docker start misp
```

For a production deployment, you probably want the database, gpg keyrings, and MISP config to live on the host filesystem so they won't disappear if the container is removed.
```
# docker run -d -p 443:443 -v /dev/urandom:/dev/random \
	-v /opt/misp/mysql:/var/lib/mysql \
	-v /opt/misp/gnupg:/var/www/MISP/.gnupg \
	-v /opt/misp/config:/var/www/MISP/app/Config \
	--restart=unless-stopped --name misp misp/misp
```

The MySQL database directory, gnupg home, and MISP config directory are all declared as volumes in the Dockerfile, so even if you don't mount them externally, you can still remove the container without losing the data.  It will just be more complicated to mount it in a new container.  See http://container-solutions.com/understanding-volumes-docker/ for more information on how docker volumes work.

If you have a real TLS certificate and want to use that instead of the self-signed cert, name your certificate "misp.crt" and your key "misp.key," and put them in a volume mapped to /etc/apache2/ssl:
```
# docker run -d -p 443:443 -v /dev/urandom:/dev/random \
	-v /opt/misp/certs:/etc/apache2/ssl --restart=unless-stopped \
	--name misp misp/misp
```

# Post-boot steps

Once the container starts, you can execute a shell in it like so:
```
# docker exec -it misp bash
```

# Usage

Point your browser to `https://<your-docker-server>`. The default credentials remain the same:  `admin@admin.test` with `admin` as password.
To use MISP, refer to the official documentation: http://www.misp-project.org/documentation/
